`	`For this project I decided to find a classification dataset on Kaggle and built a classifier using deep learning. The resulting model was implemented using python along with the tensorflow library. I specifically wanted to tackle a classification problem that would discern the difference from similar looking objects. In the end, the data I settled on was called “Sports balls - multiclass image classification”. The data consisted of over 9000 pictures of different kinds of sports balls such as basketballs and baseballs. The images were sorted into subdirectories based on what type of ball they were. Overall, there were 15 possible types of ball that any image could be classified as.

`	`In tackling this problem, I would first have to transfer the data into a usable format for a machine learning model. To do so I used the tensorflow.io.decode\_jpeg function which takes in the RGB pixel information of a jpeg image and converts it into an array of tensors. I then took the name from each image’s parent folder to use as a class which the model would try and predict. After iterating through all the images in the given dataset, I factorized the classification labels into numerical values which I then converted using the tensorflow.one\_hot function. This function takes in an integer and returns a one-dimensional matrix of a specified length where all 

*Figure 1: Snapshot of results from model training*

values are set to zero except the value at the index equal to the passed integer. For example, passing the integer three and a size variable of five would return the following list: [0,0,0,1,0]. Doing this conversion is necessary to fit the model.

`	`The model I created consists of an alternating pattern of 2D convolution layers and 2D max pooling layers. It then finishes with two dense layers. The first dense layer uses the relu activation function and the last uses softmax. The softmax activation function is the reason that the classifications had to be in such a specific format as the function requires an input array of a certain shape to work. From my experience in other machine learning classes, I found that this type of layering creates well performing models. This can be seen by the accuracy I was able to achieve on the training data in figure 1.

*Figure 2: confusion table*

`	`Output from the model came in the form of a predictions table which contained the probabilities for each test case on whether it matched a particular classification. The first 20 entries of the predictions table can be seen in figure 3.  When it came to accuracy, the final model was able correctly identify a type of ball 86% of the time when ran on testing data. The resulting confusion table can be seen in figure 2. The most common error the model made was incorrectly guessing that something was a volleyball or a golf ball. I suspect that this is a result of golf balls and volleyballs in the given data having a much wider variety of colors and patterns when compared to the other ball types. It is my hypothesis that the model overbiases these two identifications as a result. This idea is supported by looking at the predictions table as most of the test images have some probability of being classified as either golf balls or volleyballs as opposed to most other classifications which most often have probabilities of approximately 1.0 or 0.0. Furthermore, the images that were misclassified were often different than most of the other images of its class. For example, a white basketball was misidentified as volleyball.

*Figure 3: Snapshot of predictions table. Only first 8 classifications shown for legibility.*

`	`I think the simplest change that could be made to improve future models would be to increase the size and variability of the training data. Specifically, I think there needs to be more images of different patterned and colored balls that are not volleyballs and golf balls. I think this would help to solve the overclassification problem with golf balls and volleyballs as it would allow the program to better classify the multitude of patterns that each type of ball comes in.
